README.md, before:

# Authorizing Pods in OKE to Access GCP Resources Using OpenID Connect (OIDC) Discovery
Authorizing Pods in OKE to Access GCP Resources Using OpenID Connect (OIDC) Discovery


OKE lets you configure a cluster so that workloads can obtain Kubernetes ServiceAccount tokens from a projected volume. By setting up Workload Identity Federation, you can let workloads use these O[...] 


From the OKE documentation we can read the following explanation:

"You might want application pods running on a Kubernetes cluster you've created with Kubernetes Engine to communicate with cloud service APIs hosted on external cloud providers (such as GCP, AWS, [...]

OpenID Connect (OIDC) is an industry standard to make such integrations more straightforward. OpenID Connect is an identity layer built on top of OAuth 2.0. OpenID Connect supports a discovery pro[...]

Kubernetes Engine provides support for OIDC Discovery, enabling you to build applications that interact with other cloud services without the need to hard code and manually rotate API authentications[...]

At a high level, when you enable OIDC Discovery for a cluster, the application's service account token is authenticated and (if valid) exchanged for an access token. The access token is then used [...]

First thing to acknowledge is that we will need to prepare an OKE cluster with OIDC Discovery enabled and a GCP project with resources to be accessed by workloads in OKE. Lets see how to do this s[...]


## 1. Prepare OKE to support OIDC Discovery

In the OKE Documentation you can see how to create a cluster with OIDC Discovery enabled. But you can also provision a cluster without it and update it once is provisioned. 

Like this if you want to do it in the console:

<img width="1230" height="795" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/02cf2177-48d3-47f4-ae8c-32ec0bfac4ae" />


Or like this if you want to do it with OCI CLI:

Create a JSON file cluster-enable-oidc.json :

```
{
  "options": {
    "openIdConnectDiscovery": {
      "isOpenIdConnectDiscoveryEnabled": true
    }
  }
```

and run the following command:

```
oci ce cluster update --cluster-id ocid1.cluster.oc1.iad.aaaaaaaaaf______jrd --from-json file://./cluster-enable-oidc.json
```

You might need to wait a few moments. If you want to confirm, run the following command:

```
oci ce cluster get --cluster-id ocid1.cluster.oc1.iad.aaaaaaaaaf______jrd  | grep -C 'open-id-connect-discovery'
```

You should see something like the image below:

<img width="1557" height="370" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fa219535-901a481f93c1-f03fd59be68c" />

<img width="1557" height="370" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6a2eb2c3-f8e0-48c3-8fdb-f1abad078cea" />


retain the **open-id-connect-discovery-endpoint** . We will need it later.

Documentation: [OpenID Connect Discovery - Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Docs](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/ContEng/Tasks/contengOpenIDConnect-Discovery.htm)


## 2 - Prepare GCP resources

We will try to run the commands with GCP CLI, but you can always try to do it in the console as well:

1. GCP recommends to use a dedicated project to manage workload identity pools and providers, so lets create a GCP project with GCP Shell:

```
   gcloud projects create oke-oidc-gcp;
   gcloud projects create oke-oidc-gcp;
```

2. Enable the IAM, Resource Manager, Service Account Credentials, and Security Token Service APIs.

   Dont forget verifing that billing is enabled for your oke-oidc-gcp Google Cloud project.

You can do it with gcloud
```
   gcloud billing projects link oke-oidc-gcp --billing-account=MY-BILLING-ACCOUNT-ID

```
or in the console. Once done you can validate it:

```
gcloud billing projects describe oke-oidc-gcp
```

<img width="714" height="105" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5ab96d3c-6841-458d-aada-6d9307c63936" />

  

4.

Commit message:

Update README with API and Workload Identity instructions
Added instructions for enabling APIs and configuring Workload Identity Federation.

README.md, after:

# Authorizing Pods in OKE to Access GCP Resources Using OpenID Connect (OIDC) Discovery
Authorizing Pods in OKE to Access GCP Resources Using OpenID Connect (OIDC) Discovery


OKE lets you configure a cluster so that workloads can obtain Kubernetes ServiceAccount tokens from a projected volume. By setting up Workload Identity Federation, you can let workloads use these O[...] 


From the OKE documentation we can read the following explanation:

"You might want application pods running on a Kubernetes cluster you've created with Kubernetes Engine to communicate with cloud service APIs hosted on external cloud providers (such as GCP, AWS, [...]

OpenID Connect (OIDC) is an industry standard to make such integrations more straightforward. OpenID Connect is an identity layer built on top of OAuth 2.0. OpenID Connect supports a discovery pro[...]

Kubernetes Engine provides support for OIDC Discovery, enabling you to build applications that interact with other cloud services without the need to hard code and manually rotate API authentications[...]

At a high level, when you enable OIDC Discovery for a cluster, the application's service account token is authenticated and (if valid) exchanged for an access token. The access token is then used [...]

First thing to acknowledge is that we will need to prepare an OKE cluster with OIDC Discovery enabled and a GCP project with resources to be accessed by workloads in OKE. Lets see how to do this s[...]


## 1. Prepare OKE to support OIDC Discovery

In the OKE Documentation you can see how to create a cluster with OIDC Discovery enabled. But you can also provision a cluster without it and update it once is provisioned. 

Like this if you want to do it in the console:

<img width="1230" height="795" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/02cf2177-48d3-47f4-ae8c-32ec0bfac4ae" />


Or like this if you want to do it with OCI CLI:

Create a JSON file cluster-enable-oidc.json :

```
{
  "options": {
    "openIdConnectDiscovery": {
      "isOpenIdConnectDiscoveryEnabled": true
    }
  }
```

and run the following command:

```
oci ce cluster update --cluster-id ocid1.cluster.oc1.iad.aaaaaaaaaf______jrd --from-json file://./cluster-enable-oidc.json
```

You might need to wait a few moments. If you want to confirm, run the following command:

```
oci ce cluster get --cluster-id ocid1.cluster.oc1.iad.aaaaaaaaaf______jrd  | grep -C 'open-id-connect-discovery'
```

You should see something like the image below:

<img width="1557" height="370" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fa219535-901a481f93c1-f03fd59be68c" />

<img width="1557" height="370" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6a2eb2c3-f8e0-48c3-8fdb-f1abad078cea" />


retain the **open-id-connect-discovery-endpoint** . We will need it later.

Documentation: [OpenID Connect Discovery - Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Docs](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/ContEng/Tasks/contengOpenIDConnect-Discovery.htm)


## 2 - Prepare GCP resources

We will try to run the commands with GCP CLI, but you can always try to do it in the console as well:

1. GCP recommends to use a dedicated project to manage workload identity pools and providers, so lets create a GCP project with GCP Shell:

```
   gcloud projects create oke-oidc-gcp;
   gcloud projects create oke-oidc-gcp;
```

2. Enable the IAM, Resource Manager, Service Account Credentials, and Security Token Service APIs.

   Dont forget verifing that billing is enabled for your oke-oidc-gcp Google Cloud project.

You can do it with gcloud
```
   gcloud billing projects link oke-oidc-gcp --billing-account=MY-BILLING-ACCOUNT-ID

```
or in the console. Once done you can validate it:

```
gcloud billing projects describe oke-oidc-gcp
```

<img width="738" height="102" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5d3baae7-79ec-4182-a8ad-9f41c73a488a" />



3.  Enable APIs for your project

   In the console make sure that the following APIs are enabled:
   
   - Identity and Access Management (IAM) API
   - Cloud Resource Manager API
   - IAM Service Account Credentials API
   - Security Token Service API 

Or with gcloud:

```
gcloud services enable iam.googleapis.com cloudresourcemanager.googleapis.com iamcredentials.googleapis.com sts.googleapis.com
```

4. Configure Workload Identity Federation

# Create workload identity pool

```
gcloud iam workload-identity-pools create "oke-pool" \
  --location="global" \
  --description="Pool for OKE workloads"
```
